# [NAME](#NAME)

`zip_source_function`, `zip_source_function_create` â€” create data source
from function

# [LIBRARY](#LIBRARY)

libzip (-lzip)

# [SYNOPSIS](#SYNOPSIS)

`#include <``zip.h``>`

`zip_source_t *`  
`zip_source_function`(`zip_t *archive`, `zip_source_callback fn`,
`void *userdata`);

`zip_source_t *`  
`zip_source_function_create`(`zip_source_callback fn`, `void *userdata`,
`zip_error_t *error`);

# [DESCRIPTION](#DESCRIPTION)

The functions [`zip_source_function`](#zip_source_function)() and
[`zip_source_function_create`](#zip_source_function_create)() create a
zip source from the user-provided function `fn`, which must be of the
following type:

`typedef zip_int64_t` `(*zip_source_callback)`(`void *userdata`,
`void *data`, `zip_uint64_t len`, `zip_source_cmd_t cmd`);

`archive` or `error` are used for reporting errors and can be `NULL`.

When called by the library, the first argument is the `userdata`
argument supplied to the function. The next two arguments are a buffer
`data` of size `len` when data is passed in or expected to be returned,
or else `NULL` and 0. The last argument, `cmd`, specifies which action
the function should perform.

Depending on the uses, there are three useful sets of commands to be
supported by a [`zip_source_callback`](#zip_source_callback)():

read source  
Providing streamed data (for file data added to archives). Must support
`ZIP_SOURCE_OPEN`, `ZIP_SOURCE_READ`, `ZIP_SOURCE_CLOSE`,
`ZIP_SOURCE_STAT`, and `ZIP_SOURCE_ERROR`.

If your source uses any allocated memory (including `userdata`) it
should also implement `ZIP_SOURCE_FREE` to avoid memory leaks.

seekable read source  
Same as previous, but from a source allowing reading from arbitrary
offsets (also for read-only zip archive). Must additionally support
`ZIP_SOURCE_SEEK`, `ZIP_SOURCE_TELL`, and `ZIP_SOURCE_SUPPORTS`.

read/write source  
Same as previous, but additionally allowing writing (also for writable
zip archives). Must additionally support `ZIP_SOURCE_BEGIN_WRITE`,
`ZIP_SOURCE_COMMIT_WRITE`, `ZIP_SOURCE_ROLLBACK_WRITE`,
`ZIP_SOURCE_SEEK_WRITE`, `ZIP_SOURCE_TELL_WRITE`, and
`ZIP_SOURCE_REMOVE`.

On top of the above, supporting the pseudo-command
`ZIP_SOURCE_SUPPORTS_REOPEN` allows calling
[`zip_source_open`](#zip_source_open)() again after calling
[`zip_source_close`](#zip_source_close)().

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_ACCEPT_EMPTY`](#ZIP_SOURCE_ACCEPT_EMPTY)

Return 1 if an empty source should be accepted as a valid zip archive.
This is the default if this command is not supported by a source. File
system backed sources should return 0.

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_BEGIN_WRITE`](#ZIP_SOURCE_BEGIN_WRITE)

Prepare the source for writing. Use this to create any temporary
file(s).

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_BEGIN_WRITE_CLONING`](#ZIP_SOURCE_BEGIN_WRITE_CLONING)

Prepare the source for writing, keeping the first `len` bytes of the
original file. Only implement this command if it is more efficient than
copying the data, and if it does not destructively overwrite the
original file (you still have to be able to execute
`ZIP_SOURCE_ROLLBACK_WRITE`).

The next write should happen at byte `offset`.

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_CLOSE`](#ZIP_SOURCE_CLOSE)

Reading is done.

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_COMMIT_WRITE`](#ZIP_SOURCE_COMMIT_WRITE)

Finish writing to the source. Replace the original data with the newly
written data. Clean up temporary files or internal buffers. Subsequently
opening and reading from the source should return the newly written
data.

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_ERROR`](#ZIP_SOURCE_ERROR)

Get error information. `data` points to an array of two ints, which
should be filled with the libzip error code and the corresponding system
error code for the error that occurred. See
[zip_errors(3)](zip_errors.md) for details on the error codes. If the
source stores error information in a zip_error_t, use
[zip_error_to_data(3)](zip_error_to_data.md) and return its return
value. Otherwise, return 2 \* sizeof(int).

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_FREE`](#ZIP_SOURCE_FREE)

Clean up and free all resources, including `userdata`. The callback
function will not be called again.

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_GET_FILE_ATTRIBUTES`](#ZIP_SOURCE_GET_FILE_ATTRIBUTES)

Provide information about various data. Then the data should be put in
the appropriate entry in the passed `zip_file_attributes_t` argument,
and the appropriate `ZIP_FILE_ATTRIBUTES_*` value must be or'ed into the
`valid` member to denote that the corresponding data has been provided.
A `zip_file_attributes_t` structure can be initialized using
[zip_file_attributes_init(3)](zip_file_attributes_init.md).

ASCII mode  
If a file is a plaintext file in ASCII. Can be used by extraction tools
to automatically convert line endings (part of the internal file
attributes). Member `ascii`, flag `ZIP_FILE_ATTRIBUTES_ASCII`.

General Purpose Bit Flags (limited to Compression Flags)  
The general purpose bit flag in the zip in the local and central
directory headers contain information about the compression method.
Member `general_purpose_bit_flags` and `general_purpose_bit_mask` to
denote which members have been set; flag
`ZIP_FILE_ATTRIBUTES_GENERAL_PURPOSE_BIT_FLAGS`.

External File Attributes  
The external file attributes (usually operating system-specific). Member
`external_file_attributes`, flag
`ZIP_FILE_ATTRIBUTES_EXTERNAL_FILE_ATTRIBUTES`.

Version Needed  
A minimum version needed required to unpack this entry (in the usual
"major \* 10 + minor" format). Member `version_needed`, flag
`ZIP_FILE_ATTRIBUTES_VERSION_NEEDED`.

Operating System  
One of the operating systems as defined by the `ZIP_OPSYS_*` variables
(see zip.h). This value affects the interpretation of the external file
attributes. Member `host_system`, flag
`ZIP_FILE_ATTRIBUTES_HOST_SYSTEM`.

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_OPEN`](#ZIP_SOURCE_OPEN)

Prepare for reading.

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_READ`](#ZIP_SOURCE_READ)

Read data into the buffer `data` of size `len`. Return the number of
bytes placed into `data` on success, and zero for end-of-file.

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_REMOVE`](#ZIP_SOURCE_REMOVE)

Remove the underlying file. This is called if a zip archive is empty
when closed.

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_ROLLBACK_WRITE`](#ZIP_SOURCE_ROLLBACK_WRITE)

Abort writing to the source. Discard written data. Clean up temporary
files or internal buffers. Subsequently opening and reading from the
source should return the original data.

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_SEEK`](#ZIP_SOURCE_SEEK)

Specify position to read next byte from, like
[fseek(3)](http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/functions/fseek.md).
Use
[ZIP_SOURCE_GET_ARGS(3)](http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/functions/ZIP_SOURCE_GET_ARGS.md)
to decode the arguments into the following struct:

    struct zip_source_args_seek {
        zip_int64_t offset;
        int whence;
    };

If the size of the source's data is known, use
[zip_source_seek_compute_offset(3)](zip_source_seek_compute_offset.md)
to validate the arguments and compute the new offset.

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_SEEK_WRITE`](#ZIP_SOURCE_SEEK_WRITE)

Specify position to write next byte to, like
[fseek(3)](http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/functions/fseek.md).
See `ZIP_SOURCE_SEEK` for details.

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_STAT`](#ZIP_SOURCE_STAT)

Get meta information for the input data. `data` points to an allocated
`struct zip_stat`, which should be initialized using
[zip_stat_init(3)](zip_stat_init.md) and then filled in.

For uncompressed, unencrypted data, all information is optional.
However, fill in as much information as is readily available.

If the data is compressed, `ZIP_STAT_COMP_METHOD`, `ZIP_STAT_SIZE`, and
`ZIP_STAT_CRC` must be filled in.

If the data is encrypted, `ZIP_STAT_ENCRYPTION_METHOD`,
`ZIP_STAT_COMP_METHOD`, `ZIP_STAT_SIZE`, and `ZIP_STAT_CRC` must be
filled in.

Information only available after the source has been read (e.g., size)
can be omitted in an earlier call. [*NOTE*](#NOTE):
[`zip_source_function`](#zip_source_function~2)() may be called with
this argument even after being called with `ZIP_SOURCE_CLOSE`.

Return sizeof(struct zip_stat) on success.

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_SUPPORTS`](#ZIP_SOURCE_SUPPORTS)

Return bitmap specifying which commands are supported. Use
[zip_source_make_command_bitmap(3)](zip_source_make_command_bitmap.md).
If this command is not implemented, the source is assumed to be a read
source without seek support.

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_TELL`](#ZIP_SOURCE_TELL)

Return the current read offset in the source, like
[ftell(3)](http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/functions/ftell.md).

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_TELL_WRITE`](#ZIP_SOURCE_TELL_WRITE)

Return the current write offset in the source, like
[ftell(3)](http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/functions/ftell.md).

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_WRITE`](#ZIP_SOURCE_WRITE)

Write data to the source. Return number of bytes written.

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_SUPPORTS_REOPEN`](#ZIP_SOURCE_SUPPORTS_REOPEN)

This command is never actually invoked, support for it signals the
ability to handle multiple open/read/close cycles.

## [Return Values](#Return_Values)

Commands should return -1 on error. `ZIP_SOURCE_ERROR` will be called to
retrieve the error code. On success, commands return 0, unless specified
otherwise in the description above.

## [Calling Conventions](#Calling_Conventions)

The library will always issue `ZIP_SOURCE_OPEN` before issuing
`ZIP_SOURCE_READ`, `ZIP_SOURCE_SEEK`, or `ZIP_SOURCE_TELL`. When it no
longer wishes to read from this source, it will issue
`ZIP_SOURCE_CLOSE`. If the library wishes to read the data again, it
will issue `ZIP_SOURCE_OPEN` a second time. If the function is unable to
provide the data again, it should return -1.

`ZIP_SOURCE_BEGIN_WRITE` or `ZIP_SOURCE_BEGIN_WRITE_CLONING` will be
called before `ZIP_SOURCE_WRITE`, `ZIP_SOURCE_SEEK_WRITE`, or
`ZIP_SOURCE_TELL_WRITE`. When writing is complete, either
`ZIP_SOURCE_COMMIT_WRITE` or `ZIP_SOURCE_ROLLBACK_WRITE` will be called.

`ZIP_SOURCE_ACCEPT_EMPTY`, `ZIP_SOURCE_GET_FILE_ATTRIBUTES`, and
`ZIP_SOURCE_STAT` can be issued at any time.

`ZIP_SOURCE_ERROR` will only be issued in response to the function
returning -1.

`ZIP_SOURCE_FREE` will be the last command issued; if `ZIP_SOURCE_OPEN`
was called and succeeded, `ZIP_SOURCE_CLOSE` will be called before
`ZIP_SOURCE_FREE`, and similarly for `ZIP_SOURCE_BEGIN_WRITE` or
`ZIP_SOURCE_BEGIN_WRITE_CLONING` and `ZIP_SOURCE_COMMIT_WRITE` or
`ZIP_SOURCE_ROLLBACK_WRITE`.

# [RETURN VALUES](#RETURN_VALUES)

Upon successful completion, the created source is returned. Otherwise,
`NULL` is returned and the error code in `archive` or `error` is set to
indicate the error (unless it is `NULL`).

# [ERRORS](#ERRORS)

`zip_source_function`() fails if:

\[[`ZIP_ER_MEMORY`](#ZIP_ER_MEMORY)\]  
Required memory could not be allocated.

# [SEE ALSO](#SEE_ALSO)

[libzip(3)](libzip.md), [zip_file_add(3)](zip_file_add.md),
[zip_file_attributes_init(3)](zip_file_attributes_init.md),
[zip_file_replace(3)](zip_file_replace.md),
[zip_source(5)](zip_source.md), [zip_stat_init(3)](zip_stat_init.md)

# [HISTORY](#HISTORY)

`zip_source_function`() and `zip_source_function_create`() were added in
libzip 1.0.

# [AUTHORS](#AUTHORS)

Dieter Baron \<[dillo@nih.at](mailto:dillo@nih.at)\> and Thomas Klausner
\<[wiz@gatalith.at](mailto:wiz@gatalith.at)\>

|                 |     |
|-----------------|-----|
| January 5, 2023 | NiH |
