# [NAME](#NAME)

`zip_source_layered`, `zip_source_layered_create` â€” create layered data
source from function

# [LIBRARY](#LIBRARY)

libzip (-lzip)

# [SYNOPSIS](#SYNOPSIS)

`#include <``zip.h``>`

`zip_source_t *`  
`zip_source_layered`(`zip_t *archive`, `zip_source_t *source`,
`zip_source_layered_callback fn`, `void *userdata`);

`zip_source_t *`  
`zip_source_layered_create`(`zip_source_t *source`,
`zip_source_layered_callback fn`, `void *userdata`,
`zip_error_t *error`);

# [DESCRIPTION](#DESCRIPTION)

The functions [`zip_source_layered`](#zip_source_layered)() and
[`zip_source_layered_create`](#zip_source_layered_create)() create a
layered zip source from the user-provided function `fn`, which must be
of the following type:

`typedef zip_int64_t`
`(*p_source_layered_callback)`(`zip_source_t *source`, `void *userdata`,
`void *data`, `zip_uint64_t length`, `zip_source_cmd_t cmd`);

`archive` or `error` are used for reporting errors and can be `NULL`.

When called by the library, the first argument is the `source` of the
lower layer, the second argument is the `userdata` argument supplied to
the function. The next two arguments are a buffer `data` of size
`length` when data is passed in or expected to be returned, or else
`NULL` and 0. The last argument, `cmd`, specifies which action the
function should perform.

See [zip_source_function(3)](zip_source_function.md) for a description
of the commands.

A layered source transforms the data or metadata of the source below in
some way. Layered sources can't support writing and are not sufficient
to cleanly add support for additional compression or encryption methods.
This may be revised in a later release of libzip.

On success, the layered source takes ownership of `source`. The caller
should not free it.

The interaction with the lower layer depends on the command:

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_ACCEPT_EMPTY`](#ZIP_SOURCE_ACCEPT_EMPTY)

If the layered source supports this command, the lower layer is not
called automatically. Otherwise, the return value of the lower source is
used.

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_CLOSE`](#ZIP_SOURCE_CLOSE)

The lower layer is closed after the callback returns.

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_ERROR`](#ZIP_SOURCE_ERROR)

The lower layer is not called automatically. If you need to retrieve
error information from the lower layer, use
[zip_error_set_from_source(3)](zip_error_set_from_source.md) or
[zip_source_pass_to_lower_layer(3)](zip_source_pass_to_lower_layer.md).

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_FREE`](#ZIP_SOURCE_FREE)

The lower layer is freed after the callback returns.

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_GET_FILE_ATTRIBUTES`](#ZIP_SOURCE_GET_FILE_ATTRIBUTES)

The attributes of the lower layer are merged with the attributes
returned by the callback: information set by the callback wins over the
lower layer, with the following exceptions: the higher `version_needed`
is used, and `general_purpose_bit_flags` are only overwritten if the
corresponding bit is set in `general_purpose_bit_mask`.

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_OPEN`](#ZIP_SOURCE_OPEN)

The lower layer is opened before the callback is called.

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_READ`](#ZIP_SOURCE_READ)

The lower layer is not called automatically.

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_SEEK`](#ZIP_SOURCE_SEEK)

The lower layer is not called automatically.

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_STAT`](#ZIP_SOURCE_STAT)

`data` contains the stat information from the lower layer when the
callback is called.

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_SUPPORTS`](#ZIP_SOURCE_SUPPORTS)

`data` contains the bitmap of commands supported by the lower layer when
the callback is called. Since layered sources can't support writing, all
commands related to writing are stripped from the returned support
bitmap.

## [`ZIP_SOURCE_TELL`](#ZIP_SOURCE_TELL)

The lower layer is not called automatically.

# [RETURN VALUES](#RETURN_VALUES)

Upon successful completion, the created source is returned. Otherwise,
`NULL` is returned and the error code in `archive` or `error` is set to
indicate the error (unless it is `NULL`).

# [ERRORS](#ERRORS)

`zip_source_layered`() fails if:

\[[`ZIP_ER_MEMORY`](#ZIP_ER_MEMORY)\]  
Required memory could not be allocated.

# [SEE ALSO](#SEE_ALSO)

[libzip(3)](libzip.md), [zip_file_add(3)](zip_file_add.md),
[zip_file_attributes_init(3)](zip_file_attributes_init.md),
[zip_file_replace(3)](zip_file_replace.md),
[zip_source(5)](zip_source.md),
[zip_source_function(3)](zip_source_function.md),
[zip_source_pass_to_lower_layer(3)](zip_source_pass_to_lower_layer.md)

# [HISTORY](#HISTORY)

`zip_source_layered`() and `zip_source_layered_create`() were added in
libzip 1.10.

# [AUTHORS](#AUTHORS)

Dieter Baron \<[dillo@nih.at](mailto:dillo@nih.at)\> and Thomas Klausner
\<[wiz@gatalith.at](mailto:wiz@gatalith.at)\>

|                  |     |
|------------------|-----|
| January 20, 2023 | NiH |
