# [NAME](#NAME)

`zip_fopen_encrypted`, `zip_fopen_index_encrypted` â€” open encrypted file
in zip archive for reading

# [LIBRARY](#LIBRARY)

libzip (-lzip)

# [SYNOPSIS](#SYNOPSIS)

`#include <``zip.h``>`

`zip_file_t *`  
`zip_fopen_encrypted`(`zip_t *archive`, `const char *fname`,
`zip_flags_t flags`, `const char *password`);

`zip_file_t *`  
`zip_fopen_index_encrypted`(`zip_t *archive`, `zip_uint64_t index`,
`zip_flags_t flags`, `const char *password`);

# [DESCRIPTION](#DESCRIPTION)

The [`zip_fopen_encrypted`](#zip_fopen_encrypted)() function opens the
encrypted file name `fname` in `archive` using the password given in the
`password` argument. If `password` is `NULL` or the empty string, the
default password is used (see
[zip_set_default_password(3)](zip_set_default_password.md)). The
`flags` argument are the same as for [zip_fopen(3)](zip_fopen.md).

The [`zip_fopen_index_encrypted`](#zip_fopen_index_encrypted)() function
opens the file at position `index`, see
[zip_fopen_index(3)](zip_fopen_index.md). These functions are called
automatically by [zip_fopen(3)](zip_fopen.md); you only need to call
them if you want to specify a non-default password (see
[zip_set_default_password(3)](zip_set_default_password.md)).

# [RETURN VALUES](#RETURN_VALUES)

Upon successful completion, a `struct zip_file` pointer is returned.
Otherwise, `NULL` is returned and the error code in `archive` is set to
indicate the error.

# [ERRORS](#ERRORS)

\[[`ZIP_ER_NOPASSWD`](#ZIP_ER_NOPASSWD)\]  
No password was provided.

The function `zip_fopen_encrypted`() may also fail and set `zip_err` for
any of the errors specified for the routine
[zip_fopen(3)](zip_fopen.md).

The function `zip_fopen_index_encrypted`() may also fail and set
`zip_err` for any of the errors specified for the routine
[zip_fopen_index(3)](zip_fopen_index.md).

# [SEE ALSO](#SEE_ALSO)

[libzip(3)](libzip.md), [zip_fclose(3)](zip_fclose.md),
[zip_fopen(3)](zip_fopen.md), [zip_fread(3)](zip_fread.md),
[zip_get_num_entries(3)](zip_get_num_entries.md),
[zip_name_locate(3)](zip_name_locate.md)

# [HISTORY](#HISTORY)

`zip_fopen_encrypted`() and `zip_fopen_index_encrypted`() were added in
libzip 1.0.

# [AUTHORS](#AUTHORS)

Dieter Baron \<[dillo@nih.at](mailto:dillo@nih.at)\> and Thomas Klausner
\<[wiz@gatalith.at](mailto:wiz@gatalith.at)\>

# [CAVEATS](#CAVEATS)

The zip file format provides very limited possibility for password
verification (a short hash of is compared against one byte in the zip
archive). For this reason, reading a file while using an incorrect
password may immediately fail with `ZIP_ER_WRONGPASSWD`, but if the
mismatch is not detected, a zlib error may be returned later instead.
Since zlib errors can also be caused by broken compressed data, there is
no way to make sure if the password was incorrect or if it was correct,
but the compressed data was invalid.

|                    |     |
|--------------------|-----|
| September 15, 2020 | NiH |
